
The AsmTools project is built with AsmLib and serves
as a test bed.  It also serves as a source for
examples.  Additional examples are available in
the examples archive.

------------------------------------------------------------------
asmlib usage hints
------------------------------------------------------------------

This library has evolved and as it grew so
did the authors understanding.  Some of the
early functions were marginal, but they worked
and became part of other programs.  New programs
should try and avoid these obsolete functions,
as identified in the following table.

 Old function                 Preferred function
 -------------------          -------------------------------------
 crt_open,crt_close,          read_stdin
 key_mouse1,key_mouse2
  These functions set the       set the keyboard into raw mode only
  keyboard into raw mode        when reading a key.
  while the program runs.

 file_open_rd,etc.            block_open,block_write,block....
  The early file handlers       The new block file handlers, check    
  did not handle symlinks       for symlinks and handle permissions.
  and permissions correctly
                                  
 sys_launch                   sys_ex
 sys_launch_engine            sys_ex_home,sys_ex_home
 sys_launch...                sys_shell
  The early fork and            The new fork and execute routines
  execute code did not          are improved and handle parameters
  handle parameter passing      for all cases.
  for all cases


 sys_pipe...                  sys_wrap
   The pipe functions are       The sys_wrap function uses a pseudo
   not a reliable as the        terminal to feed stdin and capture
   pseudo terminal design.      stdout.


AsmLib assumes some coding conventions as follows:

 1. the "CLD" flag is set.  Normally, this can be set
    at the top of a program and forgotten.  It will work
    even if we forget to do this, but good practice says
    it should be set.

 2. Most library routines do not save registers.  This eliminates
    a lot of stack pushes which are not necessary and speeds
    up code.  This deviates from most other libraries, they save
    and restore registers.  This will create some bugs in programs
    that fail to check register usage.  Beware.      

 3. The following setup programs sometimes appear at the top
    of programs:
    read_window_size - get our screen size from the kernel
    read_term_info_0 - save current system settings.  Before exit,
                       restore with output_term_info_0
    env_stack - save ptr to the environment stack
    install_signals - install the signal to handle screen resize
                      and others.
    If a function requires the above functions to be run first,
    it will be specified.

Buffers
-------

  Some of the old file handlers assumed a BSS section is at the end of
  programs.  This allowed them to expand the program size to buffer
  data.  This can cause problems and the newer block file handlers do
  not assume a BSS section.  Additionally, mixing BSS sections between
  the library and applications caused problems.  For these reasons the
  library does not use any BSS data.  All library data is in a .data
  section.

  The library buffer lib_buf is available for use by programs, but
  anytime the library is called it may be utilized as a temp buffer.
  lib_buf is 799 bytes long.

Portability
-----------

  Some calls may need a 2.4 kernel or later.  The instructions
  do not use any newer processor features and should work on
  any 486+ processor.

  The library is tied to Linux and will not work on BSD or HERD.

Documentation
-------------

  The reference document displayed by the asmref program is somewhat
  terse and has few examples.  For complex functions it helps to
  search the AsmTools source files to see how they were used.  Also,
  look in the test.asm program which can be found near each library
  source file.

Additional hints
----------------
       
  Another way to use the library is to include the parts needed
  with a "include" statement.  This has the advantage of providing
  debug information to the debugger and makes it easy to catch
  bugs that end up with errors in the library.
