
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
105 getitimer      - get  value of an interval timer
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  mov eax,105
  mov ebx,which
  mov ecx,iValue
  int 80h

which
-----
       	ITIMER_REAL	=	0
       	ITIMER_VIRTUAL	=	1
       	ITIMER_PROF	=	2

       The system provides each  process  with  three  interval  timers,  each
       decrementing in a distinct time domain.  When any timer expires, a sig-
       nal is sent to the process, and the timer (potentially) restarts.

       ITIMER_REAL    decrements in real time, and delivers SIGALRM upon expi-
                      ration.

       ITIMER_VIRTUAL decrements  only  when  the  process  is  executing, and
                      delivers SIGVTALRM upon expiration.

       ITIMER_PROF    decrements both when the process executes and  when  the
                      system  is  executing on behalf of the process.  Coupled
                      with ITIMER_VIRTUAL, this timer is usually used to  pro-
                      file  the time spent by the application in user and ker-
                      nel space.  SIGPROF is delivered upon expiration.
                      nel space.  SIGPROF is delivered upon expiration.
ivalue
------
       ivalue will be filled with current timer state as follows;

            struct itimerval
                tv_sec1  resd x ;restart timer to x seconds upon expiration
                tv_usec1 resd y ;restart timer to y microseconds upon expiraton
                tv_sec2  resd 1 ;current countdown seconds on timer
                tv_usec2 resd 1 ;current countdown  microseconds on timer
            endstruc


       The function getitimer fills the structure indicated by value with  the
       current  setting  for the timer indicated by which (one of ITIMER_REAL,
       ITIMER_VIRTUAL, or ITIMER_PROF).  The element it_value is  set  to  the
       amount  of  time  remaining  on the timer, or zero if the timer is dis-
       abled.  Similarly, it_interval is set to the reset value.

       Timers decrement from it_value to zero, generate a signal, and reset to
       it_interval.   A  timer  which  is set to zero (it_value is zero or the
       timer expires and it_interval is zero) stops.

       Timers  will  never  expire before the requested time, instead expiring
       some short, constant time afterwards, dependent  on  the  system  timer
       resolution  (currently 10ms).  Upon expiration, a signal will be gener-
       ated and the timer reset.  If the timer expires while  the  process  is
       active (always true for ITIMER_VIRT) the signal will be delivered imme-
       diately when generated.  Otherwise the delivery will  be  offset  by  a
       small time dependent on the system loading.


RETURN VALUE
       On  success,  zero is returned.  On error a negative code is returned

ERRORS
       EFAULT value or ovalue are not valid pointers.

       EINVAL which is not one of ITIMER_REAL, ITIMER_VIRT, or ITIMER_PROF.

SEE ALSO
       gettimeofday, sigaction

BUGS
       Under Linux, the generation and delivery of a signal are distinct,  and
       there each signal is permitted only one outstanding event.  It's there-
       fore conceivable that under pathologically heavy  loading,  ITIMER_REAL
       will  expire  before  the  signal  from  a previous expiration has been
       delivered.  The second signal in such an event will be lost.


