----------------------------------------------------------------------------
system 167 query_module            - query the kernel for bits pertaining to modules
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Note: This function was eliminated after kernel version 2.4

  mov  eax,167
  mov  ebx,Name    ;ptr to name of loaded module
  mov  ecx,which
  mov  edx,buf
  mov  esi,bufsize
  mov  edi,retval
  int  80h

       query_module requests information related to loadable modules from  the
       kernel.   The  precise nature of the information and its format depends
       on the which sub function.  Some functions require name to name a  cur-
       rently  loaded module, some allow name to be NULL indicating the kernel
       proper.


   VALUES OF WHICH
       0      Always returns success.  Used to probe for the system call.

       QM_MODULES
              Returns the names of all loaded modules.  The output buffer for-
              mat  is adjacent null-terminated strings; ret is set to the num-
              ber of modules.

       QM_DEPS
              Returns the names of all modules used by the  indicated  module.
              The  output  buffer  format is adjacent null-terminated strings;
              ret is set to the number of modules.

       QM_REFS
              Returns the names of all modules  using  the  indicated  module.
              This  is  the  inverse  of QM_DEPS.  The output buffer format is
              adjacent null-terminated strings; ret is set to  the  number  of
              modules.

       QM_SYMBOLS
              Returns  the  symbols  and  values exported by the kernel or the
              indicated module.  The buffer format is an array of:

              struct module_symbol
              {
                unsigned long value;
                unsigned long name;
              };

              followed by null-terminated strings.  The value of name  is  the
              character offset of the string relative to the start of buf; ret
              is set to the number of symbols.

       QM_INFO
              Returns miscellaneous information about  the  indicated  module.
              The output buffer format is:

              struct module_info
              {
                unsigned long address;
                unsigned long size;
                unsigned long flags;
              };

              where address is the kernel address at which the module resides,
              size is the size of the module in bytes, and flags is a mask  of
              MOD_RUNNING,  MOD_AUTOCLEAN,  et  al  that indicates the current
              status of the module.  ret is set to the size of the module_info
              struct.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success, zero is returned. On error a negative code is returned

ERRORS
       ENOENT No module by that name exists.

       EINVAL Invalid which, or name indicates the kernel for an inappropriate
              sub function.

       ENOSPC The buffer size provided was too small.  ret is set to the mini-
              mum size needed.

       EFAULT At least one of name, buf, or  ret  was  outside  the  program's
              accessible address space.

SEE ALSO
       create_module, init_module, delete_module


