
----------------------------------------------------------------------
276 set_mempolicy  - set NUMA memory policy
----------------------------------------------------------------------

  mov  eax,276
  mov  ebx,mpol
  mov  ecx,bfield ;pointer to bit field
  mov  edx,num
  int  80h

   Sets the NUMA memory policy of the calling process.
   A NUMA machine has different memory controllers with different
   distances to specific CPUs. The memory policy defines in which node
   memory is allocated for the process.
   This system call defines the default policy for the process; in
   addition a policy can be set for specific memory ranges using
   sys_mbind. The policy is only applied when a new page is allocated
   for the process. For anonymous memory this is when the page is first
   touched by the application.

args
----

 ebx policy mode (mpol)

        MPOL_DEFAULT	0
        MPOL_PREFERRED	1
        MPOL_BIND	2
        MPOL_INTERLEAVE	3

   MPOL_DEFAULT This is the default and means to allocate memory locally,
   i.e., on the node of the CPU that triggered the allocation. ecx should
   be specified as NULL.

   MPOL_PREFERRED Sets the preferred node for allocation. The kernel will
   try to allocate in this node first and fall back to other nodes if the
   preferred node is low on free memory. Only the first node in the
   bitmask pointed by ecx is used. If no node is set in the mask, then
   the memory is allocated on the node of the CPU that triggered the
   allocation allocation (like MPOL_DEFAULT).

   MPOL_BIND A strict policy that restricts memory allocation to the
   nodes specified in the bitmask pointed by ecx . There won't be
   allocations on other nodes.

   MPOL_INTERLEAVE Interleaves allocations to the nodes specified in the
   bitmask pointed by ecx. This optimizes for bandwidth instead of
   latency. To be effective the memory area should be fairly large, at
   least 1MB or bigger.

 ecx A pointer to a bit field of nodes specifying the nodes to which
   the policy applies. The bit field size is rounded to the next multiple
   of dword, but the kernel will only use bits up to edx.

 edx Number of bits in the bit field pointed by ecx.

Return values

   If the system call succeeds the return value is 0.
   If the system call fails the return value is one of the following
   errno values:

   -EINVAL Unrecognized policy (ebx).
   -EFAULT ecx points to an invalid location.

   The memory policy is inherited by child processes created using
   sys_fork or clone.

   Available since 2.6.7

