
---------------------------------------------------------------------
299 futimesat  - change access relative
---------------------------------------------------------------------

  mov  eax,299
  mov  ebx,descriptor
  mov  ecx,pathname   ;pointer to asciiz path
  mov  edx,timeval    ;ponter to timeval struc
  int  80h

   Changes the access and modification times of an file realtive to a
   directory desriptor.
   The function sys_utimes allows specification of time stamps with a
   resolution of 1 microsecond.

args
----

 ebx Directory descriptor.

 ecx A pointer to a null-terminated string specifying the pathname of
   the file.
   If the pathname is relative, then it is interpreted relative to the
   directory referred to by the file descriptor ebx (rather than relative
   to the current working directory of the calling process, as is done by
   sys_ utimes for a relative pathname).
   If the pathname is relative and ebx is the special value AT_FDCWD,
   then pathname is interpreted relative to the current working directory
   of the calling process.
   If the pathname is absolute, then ebx is ignored.

 edx A pointer to a timeval structure containing new access and
   modification times:

   struct timeval
   tv_sec  resd ?
   tv_usec resd ?
   endstruc

   Where tv_sec refers to access time and tv_usec refers to modification
   time.

Return values

   If the system call succeeds the return value is 0.
   If the system call fails the return value is one of the following
   errno values:

   -EACCES Search permission is denied for one of the directories in the
     path prefix of pathname.
     -or-
     ecx is NULL and the process does not have permission to change the
     time stamps.
   -ENOENT Pathanme pointed by ebx does not exist.
   -EPERM ecxis not NULL and the process does not have permission to
     change the time stamps.
   -EROFS Pathname pointed by ebx resides on a read-only file system.
   -EBADF ebx is not a valid file descriptor.
   -ENOTDIR Pathname is a relative path and ebx is a file descriptor
     referring to a file other than a directory.

   Linux does not allow changing the time stamps on an immutable file, or
   setting the time stamps to something other than the current time on an
   append-only file.

   Available since 2.6.16

