
---------------------------------------------------------------------
305 readlink  - read symbolic link relative
---------------------------------------------------------------------

  mov  eax,305
  mov  ebx,fd
  mov  ecx,pathname  ;pointer t asciiz string
  mov  edx,buffer    ;pointer to buffer
  mov  esi,size      ;size of buffer
  int  80h

   Reads value of a symbolic link relative to a directory file
   descriptor.
   This system call operates in exactly the same way as sys_readlink,
   except for the differences described below.

args
----

 ebx Directory file descriptor.

 ecx A pointer to a null-terminated string specifying the symbolic link
   pathname.
   If the pathname is relative, then it is interpreted relative to the
   directory referred to by the file descriptor ebx (rather than relative
   to the current working directory of the calling process, as is done by
   sys_readlink for a relative pathname).
   If the pathname is relative and ebx is the special value AT_FDCWD,
   then path is interpreted relative to the current working directory of
   the calling process.
   If the pathname is absolute, then ebx is ignored.

 edx A pointer to a buffer which will receive the value. null byte is
   not appended by sys_readlink.

 esi Size of the buffer pointed by edx. In case the buffer is too small
   the value sys_readlink will truncate its contents.

Return values

   If the system call succeeds the return value is the count of
   characters placed in the buffer.
   If the system call fails the return value is one of the following
   errno values:

   -EACCES Search permission is denied for a component of the path
     prefix.
   -EFAULT Buffer pointed by edx extends outside the process's allocated
     address space.
   -EINVAL The named file is not a symbolic link.
     -or-
     esi is not positive.
   -EIO An I/O error occurred while reading from the file system.
   -ELOOP Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating the
     pathname.
   -ENAMETOOLONG A pathname, or a component of a pathname, was too long.
   -ENOENT The named file does not exist.
   -ENOMEM Insufficient kernel memory was available.
   -ENOTDIR A component of the path prefix is not a directory.
     -or-
     Path is a relative path and ebx is a file descriptor referring to a
     file other than a directory.
   -EBADF ebx is not a valid file descriptor.

   Available since 2.6.16

