
----------------------------------------------------------------------
309 ppoll  - wait till signal
----------------------------------------------------------------------

  mov  eax,309
  mov  ebx,pollfd   ;pointer to pollfd
  mov  ecx,num      ;number of elements in pollfd
  mov  edx,timspec  ;pointer to timespec struc
  mov  esi,mask     ;pointer to mask 
  int  80h

   Waits for an event on a file descriptor or until a signal is caught.

SYNOPSIS

 #define _GNU_SOURCE
 #include <poll.h>

 int ppoll(struct pollfd *fds , nfds_t  nfds , 
         const struct timespec *timeout , const sigset_t * sigmask );


args
----

 ebx A pointer to an array of a pollfd structures

   struct pollfd
   .fd      resd ?
   .events  resw ?
   .revents resw ?
   endstruc

   pollfd members:

   fd -  File descriptor of an open file.
   events -  A bit-mask specifying the events the application is interested in.

   Available flags are:
   POLLIN     There is data to read
   POLLPRI    There is urgent data to read
   POLLOUT    Writing now will not block
   POLLERR    Error condition
   POLLHUP    Hung up
   POLLNVAL   Invalid request: fd not open
   POLLRDNORM Normal data may be read
   POLLRDBAND Priority data may be read
   POLLWRNORM Writing now will not block
   POLLWRBAND Priority data may be written
   POLLMSG    *to be documented*
   POLLREMOVE *to be documented*
   POLLRDHUP  *to be documented*

   revents - This member is filled by the kernel with the events that actually
             occurred.

 ecx Specifies the number of elements in the array of pollfd
   structures. *to be verified*

 edx A pointer toa timespec strcutre which specifies an upper limit on
   the amount of time that sys_ppoll will block If edx is specified as
   NULL, then sys_ppoll can block indefinitely.

 esi bit mask couresponding to events, see poll and select

   If the system call succeeds the return value is a positive number
   which denotes the number of structures which have non-zero revents
   fields (in other words, those descriptors with events or errors
   reported). A value of 0 indicates that the call timed out and no file
   descriptors have been selected.
   If the system call fails the return value is one of the following
   errno values:

   -EBADF An invalid file descriptor was given in one of the sets.
   -ENOMEM There was no space to allocate file descriptor tables.
   -EFAULT The array given as argument was not contained in the calling
     program's address space.
   -EINTR A signal occurred before any requested event.
   -EINVAL The ecx value exceeds the RLIMIT_NOFILE value.


   Available since 2.6.16
