
NAME

 AsmTrace - trace execution of elf executable

SYNOPSIS

 AsmTrace logs kernel functions and disassembly of
 x86 code to a file. Start and stop triggers are
 used to turn the trace output on and off.

DESCRIPTION

 AsmTrace is primarialy for assembly language programmers
 and shows low level reguister information in hex. It uses
 tables to describe the output format and is easily extended.
 Initially it presents a menu to set triggers and amount of
 information logged. Output is stored to a file.

USAGE

  asmtrace filename

  asmtrace -a filename

  asmtrace -f filename

 If filename is provided it is traced using defaults. For most
 operations the filename is left off. This starts asmtrace
 with a menu of optons.

 the "a" option attaches to running file

 the "f" option enable following forks, clones, and vforks.

 Running asmtrace with defaults will trace function names and
 provide a sequence number. The menu mode (no parameters
 initially) has options for additional information and triggers.
 Typically, large programs are traced with defaults first to
 find sequence numbers. Then areas of intrest can be traced
 in detail by using the sequence number to trigger a detailed
 trace.

TRACE MENU OPTIONS

 attach - attaches to running process

 program to trace - name of program to trace

 output file - name of file to store trace information

 start seq - sequence number to start tracing

 start adr - address of function to start tracing

 start fun - function number to enable trace

 stop seq - sequence number to disable trace

 stop adr - address of function of disable trace

 stop fun - function number to disable trace

 show process - process number reporting control

 show address - execution address reporting control

 show sequence - sequence number reporting control

 show function - function name reporting control

 show registers - if functions reported, this adds registers

 show extras - extra data reporting

 show disassembly - report all instructions 

FILES

 If installed with test data, the /usr/share/doc/asmref/
 directory contains sample programs for many kernel function.
 (see asmref)

 asmtrace does not need any support files, and is usually installed
 to /usr/bin.

SEE ALSO
 asmmgr(1) asmref(1) asmedit(1)
 
AUTHOR
 Jeff Owens <jko@bsn1.net>

COPYRIGHT
 Copyright (C) 2007 Jeff Owens
 This program comes with absolutely NO WARRANTY
