
NAME

 asmmgr - file manager for assembler programmers

DESCRIPTION

 AsmMgr is an assembler IDE front end. It calls several
 support programs and can coordinate development. The
 design and key usage is similar to the mc file manager.

 When configured for assembler development the top row
 of buttons provide compile and debug buttons. The
 "project" button will list installed tools, create
 project directories, open projects, build makefiles,
 build sample source files, and assist with setting
 up projects. 

 AsmMgr was written to ease assembly development and
 remove some of the hurdles faced by novice programmers.

 AsmMgr is part of a collection of programs that can work
 together or work as stand alone functions. These programs
 are:
  asmbug  - debugger
  asmsrc  - source code generator
  asmdis  - disassembler
  asmedit - editor
  asmlib -  library
  asmplan - todo list (design functions planned)
  asmref  - extensive help system
  asmfunc - helper programs for asmedit, asmmgr, and others
  asmmgr - front end
  asmpub - builds documents from comments in source (in design)
  asmsrc - generates nasm source from ELF executable

STARTUP WINDOW

 The middle buttons are file related and work on the highlighted file.
 For move or copy operations the highlighted file/directory is moved to
 directory shown in opposing panel.

 The bottom line is always available for shell commands.

 the top row of buttons are user defined. The defaults are
 setup to create an ide for assembler. All top buttons are
 attached to external programs or scripts.

USAGE

 When first loaded, AsmMgr looks for paths on the command
 line and if not found it used the $HOME directory.
 AsmMgr can accept paths for the two windows.

 Another somewhat invisible input is from a collection of
 files that configure the program and control how it reacts
 to user input. These files can describe projects, buttons,
 button actions, and other parameters.

QUICK START

 To quickly set up an assembler project, simply click the
 project button and fill out the form. Then select open
 project from within the project setup dialog. The new
 project will appear in the left panel. Click the "make"
 button to compile the sample source file and click the
 "debug" button to enter the debugger.

MOUSE

 The mouse is active in all windows (if AsmMgr is executed in
 an xterm). In console mode, the keyboard is used. In most
 menu's the up/down arrow keys followed by enter, will select
 options. Escape or ctrl-O can be used to exit most windows.

 Mouse Usage

 All buttons can be selected by mouse clicks. The right/left
 panels can be activated by mouse clicks and once selected
 individual files can be highlighted.

 Clicking a highlighed entry will result in an action
 AsmMgr thinks is appropiate. If executable is found, it
 will be started, if directory it will be entered, etc.

 Right clicks on top button row will convert button into
 a bookmark using currently active directory.

 Top button bar

 The top buttons can be configured with "setup" as either
 functions or bookmarks. A bookmark label has to start
 with the "/" character and functions can be any executable.
 All top buttons result in execution of a shell command.

 Since some of the buttons call scripts it is easy to change
 the way they operate. Each top button executable receives
 the selected right/left window entries as parameters.

 Bookmark buttons have a short cut feature that sets the
 current directory to bookmark. Simply right-click on
 a top line button and it becomes a bookmark.

 vertical button bar

 The status button brings up a table showing the
 status of current highlighted entry. It also allows
 attributes and owners to be changed.

 The open button works on highlighted entry. If a
 directory is highlighted, it is entered. If a file
 is highlighted it is decoded using a table of
 instructions (see setup function to edit table).
 If the file is an executable it will be executed.

 the view button works on highlighted entry. It
 will try to determine viewing options using a
 table of instructions. (see setup button to
 edit table).

 The edit button starts an editor on the currently
 highlighted file. The default editor can be selected
 from the setup button.

 Copy transfers files/directories from on panel to
 the other. An option to change names occurs before
 the copy.

 Move will move files and directories and rename
 them. To rename anything set both panels to the
 same location an use move with name change.

 Delete is a very dangerous button. Beware, it does
 not ask first.

 Expand knows about most compression types and expands
 them.

 Tar.gz makes compressed files in only one format. 

 Compare will compare the two text files in right
 and left panels. It uses an external program to
 do this which can be changed by editing the compare
 script. Initially AsmMgr expects the program
 xxdiff to be available and does nothing if not found.

 Print needs to be setup for your printer. It is
 currently setup for a deskjet 500 which may not
 be ideal. The print script can be edited to
 change its operation.

 The terminal button can be used to check on the results
 of AsmMgr shell commands or work in the shell. Once in
 the shell it is necessary to type "exit" to leave.

 Another way to enter and leave the terminal is with the
 ctrl-o key. This is easy to remember since it is used
 to exit many commands that call terminal programs.

 The terminal entry line accepts all alpha characters typed.
 Pressing <return> will execute the line. Note: if no
 characters have been typed, the <return> key is connected
 to the open button.

 The highlighted file can be inserted into a terminal command
 by entering "%f". For example: to edit the current file with
 vi type:
  
     vi %f <enter>

 Note: Since typing <Enter> can execute a highlighted program
 or run data on the terminal it is necessary to keep AsmMgr
 informed about which is needed. To help with this the terminal
 line is highlighted whenever AsmMgr thinks it is being used
 to enter commands. To get out of the entry mode, type ESC or
 any non-alpha key.

Keyboard commands

  ctrl-x      -  exit
  alt-x       -  exit
  alt-q       -  exit

  tab    - switch panels

  ctrl-o - switch to and from the terminal display

  right/left
  arrow keys - traverse directory tree

  up/down
  arrow keys - traverse up/down file list

  pgup/pgdn  - page up down file selection panel

  enter - same as open button

  ESC,q,ctrl-o are all used to exit helper programs
  run by asmmgr. A few helper programs require other
  keys to exit and for these programs ctrl-c always
  works. For example the "less" viewer is run when
  the F3 key is pressed. Normally, "less" uses the
  'q' key to exit. Asmmgr also recognizes ESC, F3,
  and ctrl-c as exit keys.

  all other keys are show on buttons and usage is
  obvious.

INSTALL

  The command "make install" as root can be used to
  install AsmMgr. Program can be uninstalled with
  "make uninstall".

Configuration

  The "setup" button can be used to edit the
  configuration files and change AsmMgr operation.
  
  Access button  file name        Description
  -------------  --------------   ------------------------
  setup          config.tbl       general settings
  setup          top_buttons.tbl  defines buttons on top row
  setup          open_button.tbl  defines open button action
  setup          view_button.tbl  defines view button action
  project        project.tbl      describes projects

  The top row buttons can also be bookmarks which are
  set from the "setup" button or right click.


DEPENDENCIES

  Optional compile dependency: AsmLib

  AsmMgr calls numerous UNIX utilities, too many
  for a short list.  If a feature does not work or
  a file type will can not be viewed, then install
  the program that can not be found.  Normally, the
  most used programs are already installed.
 