
NAME
  
  Asmlinks - text file viewer with imbedded link handling

USAGE

    usage: asmlinks file


INTRODUCTION

asmlinks reads a file into memory and converts all non-text
(binary) data to "." (period) characters. The data is then
displayed in a window. The data can contain links to other files

KEYBOARD ACTIONS

          up key    - move to prev (up) link, if not found move up one line
          down key  - move to next link (donw) if not found move down one line
          pgup key  - page up
          pgdn key  - page down
          right     - enter link
          Enter     - enter link
          left      - previous file or exit if at root
          Esc       - previous file or exit if at root
          f10       - previous file or exit if at root
          f1        - help
          f2        - find, places match on top line
          f3        - find again
          home      - goto top of file
          end       - goto end of file

SEARCHING

Search strings can be entered by typing a normal text character.
The search string will appear on the status line (bottom of the
display).

Searching always begins from the second line of currently displayed
page and all matches are positioned on the top line of the display.
To continue searching, just keep pressing <f3>. To start a search
from the top of file, type <home> and then either <Enter> or a new
search string followed by <Enter>

All non-control keys are assumed to be part of a search string and
will be shown at the bottom of the screen.

FILE FORMAT
-----------

AsmLinks will view normal text files and special link files.
Link files are recognized by finding link table at end. Each
link table has entries consisting of:

<keyword>=/file/path

Within the text a link entry is created by entering <keyword>
Keywords entered without a couresponding table entry are
ignored.

COMPILING
---------

 Compile with:  nasm -felf xxxx.asm -o xxxx.o
                ld xxxx.o -o xxxx

 
INSTALLING 
----------

 see file INSTALL for more information.
 The AsmTools consists of many programs which
 can be installed separatly. All programs are
 selfcontained but many also interact with other
 programs.

 The easiest way to get started is to install the
 complete package

Limitations
-----------

 AsmIDE programs only run on X86 processors using
 the Linux kernel version 2.4 or later. It isn't
 portable to other UNIX flavors but over 90 percent
 of all UNIX installations are for Linux X86.

 Also, AsmLinks runs in a console or terminal. If
 the X window GUI is being used then, AsmLinks needs
 to be placed in a terminal. In the console mode
 it does not  set up a mouse interface and relies
 on the keyboard.

BUG/COMMENTS
------------

 The author can be found on the DesktopLinuxAsm
 discussion group at yahoogroups. To join send
 a blank email to:

   DesktopLinuxAsm-subscribe@yahoogroups.com

 Additional information may be available on the
 home page at:

 http://linuxasmtools.net/

This package is part of AsmTools (a collection of
programs for assembler developent on Linux X86 cpu's.)

